# Solitaire/Co-op Mode

To set up the game, you randomly deal out two characters along with their starting items. You then draw two separate hands of three loot cards and 3¢, one for each of these characters. Do not mix the hands, but you can leave the loot cards face-up. Set up the monster, loot, and treasure decks as normal. Place two treasure cards and two monster cards face up beside their respective decks as normal. Set the D8 out in an easily seen area with the 8 side up.

You play as both of these characters, and play proceeds as normal, playing one character at a time. You play one character, then the second character in the same order the whole game. When both character turns are over the D8 ticks down one. If a character dies during their turn, the d8 also ticks down one. You may not trade ¢ between characters in solitaire mode. All other rules for character deaths, effects, responses, and play remain unchanged.

The objective is to collect four souls between the two characters before the d8 reaches zero. You do, you win. You don’t, you lose.

* * *

### Setup

Setup is mostly as normal (see **Setup**). If you are playing solitaire, you still deal out two character cards during setup.

At the end of setting up, you put out the D8 with the eight side face up. This is the **timer**.

You don’t play with any **bonus souls** in solitaire or co-op mode, so don’t put any out during setup.

* * *

### Playing the Game

When playing solitaire mode, one person controls both characters. For co-op, each character is controlled by a different person. For the sake of abilities and targeting, each character is considered a separate **player**, even if they are both controlled by the same person!

Once you have decided on the starting character, play proceeds as normal. In solitaire, each character takes turns just the same as if they were controlled by more than one person. The turn order of the characters will stay the same for the whole game.

At the end of each **round**, when both character turns are over, the timer ticks down by one. The timer also ticks down by one each time a character dies during their turn. The objective is to reach four souls between the two characters before the timer reaches zero! If the timer ever does reach zero, you lose.

Reaching four souls is the goal for **normal** difficulty. If you fancy more of a challenge, you can try playing **hard** or **ultra hard** difficulty, and reaching 6 or 8 souls, respectively. Another way to up the difficulty is limiting the number of souls each character can control, e.g. to a maximum of 4 on **hard** or **ultra hard**, meaning that the souls you obtain have to be spread between the two characters.

* * *

### Other Rules

Each character has a separate ¢ pool and hand, even if they are controlled by the same person. Neither the ¢ pool or hand of each character should be mixed, but you can play with the loot cards in each hand face up. This also means you may not trade ¢ between characters in solitaire or co-op mode.

When any souls are gained, each character is considered a separate player, even if controlled by the same person, as above. This means that each character will end up with their own souls, which shouldn’t be mixed. There is no limit on the number of souls each can control.

After step 3 of the end phase (when the active player is able to choose to put a room into discard if a monster had died during the turn), if the top card of a room slot hasn’t changed for a whole round, put that room into discard.

Cards with the 3+ player icon should be removed. If you come across a card with this icon whilst playing, simply put it to one side and replace it with another card of the same type.

All other rules remain unchanged from standard competitive gameplay.

