# Four Souls Challenges

A number of **Four Souls Challenges** can be found and downloaded on the Maestro Media website ([maestromedia.com](https://maestromedia.com/collections/binding-of-isaac-four-souls)). **Four Souls Challenges** represent new and engaging ways to play the game in Solitaire and Co-op mode, using your existing cards. They often have a competitive variant too!

Each challenge will have its own specific set of rules, but there are also a few new rules that apply to all challenges.

* * *

**Final Boss Slot**

**Final boss slots** are a special new type of slot that exist separate to regular monster slots.

A monster in a final boss slot can’t be covered and also can’t leave the slot for any reason unless it is killed, unless otherwise specified.

A monster in a final boss slot is still considered a **monster**, just as if it was in a monster slot, and can be targeted by any abilities or loot that target monsters. A monster in a final boss slot is also considered a **final boss**.

When declaring an attack, the active player may choose to declare an attack on a monster in a final boss slot.

A monster in final boss slots has **boss armor**. This means that if a monster in a final boss slot would be killed outright by an ability (rather than by taking damage), or if it would take one instance of more than 3 non-combat damage, it instead takes 3 damage.

If a monster in a final boss slot is defeated, it dies as normal. The challenge in question will tell you what happens next – often it will mean you have beaten the challenge!

* * *

**Minion Slots**

**Minion slots** are a special new type of slot that exist separate to regular monster slots.

A monster in a minion slot can’t leave that slot for any reason unless it is killed, unless otherwise specified.

Monsters in a minion slot are still considered **monsters**, just as if they were in a monster slot, and can be targeted by any abilities or loot that target monsters. A monster in a minion slot is also considered a **minion**.

When declaring an attack, the active player may choose to declare an attack on a monster in a minion slot.

If you are instructed to put a monster in a minion slot, you expand minion slots by 1 and put that monster in that new minion slot, unless otherwise specified. You may only put a card in a minion slot when specifically instructed to do so.

If a monster in a minion slot is defeated, it dies as normal. Minion slots are temporary, however, and so are not refilled when they are empty.

If an **event** is put in a minion slot, its abilities trigger and it is put into discard when they have resolved, just the same as if it was put in a monster slot.

* * *

**The Timer**

When playing a challenge, the timer only ticks down **at the end of each round**, or when you are otherwise instructed to. It does **not** tick down each time a character dies, like it does in regular solitaire/co-op play (unless the challenge in question tells you it does!).

* * *

**Beating a Challenge**

The goal of a challenge will be listed, and the challenge is only won when this goal is met. If any other ability would choose a player as a winner or otherwise end the game, you simply keep playing until either the goal is achieved or the challenge is lost.

