# Turn Structure

Each turn is split into three phases: the Start Phase, the Action Phase, and the End Phase. Players take turns in a clockwise order, and therefore at the end of a player’s End Phase, the turn is passed to the player to their left.

**The Start Phase**

1.  **The Recharge Step**. The active player **recharges** (turns upright) objects they control. Any objects controlled by the game (with the exception of shop items) also **recharge**.
2.  Abilities that trigger at the start of the turn trigger, then priority passes between all players.
3.  **The Loot Step**. The active player loots 1. At the end of this step, priority passes between all players, then the action phase begins.

* * *

**The Action Phase**

When the action phase starts, the active player gets one **loot play** that lasts until the end of the turn. During the action phase, while there is nothing on the stack (i.e. not in response to anything), the active player has priority by default and may choose to:

*   Declare an attack
*   Declare a purchase
*   End the turn

By default, the active player may make a maximum of one attack and one purchase each turn.  Players can do as many or as few of the above as they wish on any given turn.

While they have priority, the active player may also activate any activated abilities they control, or play a loot card either by using their **loot play** for the turn, or by using an ability that lets them play a loot card, such as the ↷ ability of most character cards. Priority will pass if they do activate an ability or play a loot card, as well as after they declare that they are attacking, purchasing, or ending the turn.

When a player declares they are ending the turn, after priority has passed, the **end phase** starts.

* * *

**The End Phase**

1.  Abilities that trigger at the end of the turn trigger, then priority passes between all players.
2.  If the active player has more loot cards in their hand than their **max hand size** (10 by default), they discard loot cards until they have as many cards left in their hand as their max hand size.
3.  If playing with the room deck, and if a monster died during the turn, the active player may put a room into discard.
4.  The turn ends and is passed to the next player. All objects with an HP stat heal to full HP, including any dead players, and abilities and effects that last till end of turn end.

An effect or ability that ends the turn forces the **end phase** to begin, but will not prevent any of the above from happening. An effect or ability that ends the turn does not remove anything from **the stack**.

* * *

### Round

A round lasts from the start of a player’s turn until the start of their next one, with each other player having had a turn in between. For each player, and any objects they control, a round is defined relative to their own turn. For the game, and any objects controlled by the game (not controlled by any player), a round is defined relative to the starting player’s turn.

Any extra turns added by abilities or rewards do not affect the start or end point of a round. Similarly, skipped turns have no effect on the length of a round – that player is still viewed as having had their turn when it comes to keeping track of a round, even though they didn’t actually get to take the turn.

